4
A dog is following the scent of a rabbit. How does the dog's brain receive input of the smell?
Chemoreceptors in the brain send impulses for smell in the nasal cavity.
*Chemoreceptors in the nasal cavity send impulses to the appropriate area of the brain.
Chemoreceptors on the epithelial cells of the tongue send hormones to the appropriate area of the brain.
Receptors originating in the nose send action potentials to the motor regions of the brain.
Thrips are insects that feed on rose pollen. Scientists noted that the thrips population increased in the spring and decreased in the summer. The researchers hypothesized that food abundance was the limiting factor for the population. Which of the following types of data would be most useful for the scientists to collect at regular intervals on a designated test plot of rose plants?
Amount of sunlight (hours/day)
Mean temperature (degrees C)
*Density of rose pollen produced (g/m^2)
Amount of pollen produced by each flower (g/flower)
Scientists have found that the existing populations of a certain species of amphibian are small in number, lacking in genetic diversity, and separated from each other by wide areas of dry land. Which human action is most likely to improve the long-term survival of the amphibians?
Cloning the largest individuals to counteract the effects of aggressive predation
Reducing the population size by one fifth to decrease competition for limited resources
Construction a dam and irrigation system to control flooding
*Building ponds in the areas of dry land to promote interbreeding between the separated populations
The healthy human immune system responds to pathogens with both specific and nonspecific processes. Which of the following cells performs only nonspecific responses?
B Cell
*Macrophage
Cytotoxic T Cells
Helper T cell
Beaked whales feed at various depths, but they defecate at the ocean's surface. Nitrogen-rich whale feces deposited in surface waters supply nutrients for algae that are eaten by surface-dwelling fish. Which of the following best predicts what would happen if the whale population decreased?
There would be a reduction in surface nitrogen concentration, which would cause an algal bloom.
*The surface fish populations would decline due to reduced populations of algae.
The remaining whales would accumulate mutations at a faster rate.
The remaining whales would be forced to forage in the deepest parts of the ocean.
Which of the following questions is most relevant to understanding the Calvin cycle?
*How is ATP used in the formation of 3-carbon carbohydrates?
How does chlorophyll capture light?
How is NADP+ reduced to NADPH?
How is ATP produced in chemiosmosis?
Rosalind Franklin's x-ray diffraction images taken in the 1950s most directly support which of the following claims about DNA?
The ratios of base pairs are constant.
The nucleotide sequence determines genetic information.
The two strands of DNA are antiparallel.
*The basic molecular structure is a helix.
If the ATP breakdown (hydrolysis) is inhibited, which of the following types of movement across cell membranes is also inhibited?
Movement of oxygen into a cell
Movement of water through aquaporins
*Passage of a solute against its concentration gradient
Facilitated diffusion of a permeable substance
DNA replication occurs:
*During the S phase of the cell cycle
As the nuclear envelope breaks down in early mitosis
During mitosis  but not during meiosis
In animal cells but not in plant cells
An allele on the X chromosome is responsible for the recessive trait of red-green color blindness in humans. The daughter of a woman who is color-blind has normal vision and marries a man who is color blind. This couple has a son, what is the probability that the son will be color-blind?
0
1/4
*1/2
3/4
What best describes the function of the coenzymes NAD+ and FAD in eukaryotic cellular respiration?
They participate in hydrolysis reactions by accepting protons from water molecules
They serve as the final electron acceptors in the electron transport chain.
They aid vitamins such as niacin in the breakdown of glucose
*They accept electrons during oxidation-reduction reactions.
A group of people whose ancestors immigrated to North America 200 years ago have certain allele frequencies that differ significantly from those in the surrounding populations in the United States. Which of the following is the most likely reason for the difference in allele frequency?
Mutation
Independent assortment
*Reproductive isolation
Sex linkage
There is strong evidence that two species of cliff-dwelling birds have nested in the same environment and fed in the same water for thousands of years, with each having stable population sizes. Based on this information, which of the following statements is the best conclusion?
One species is a better diver than the other one
The two birds compete for food
One species will displace the other
*The two species have different ecological niches that allow coexistence
When the dorsal lip of the blastopore is removed from one developing embryo and successfully implanted into a different location in a second embryo of the same species at the same developmental stage, which of the following is the likely result?
*Neural tubes form in the second embryo.
Both embryos continue to develop normally.
The second embryo fails to develop a head.
The tissues derived from mesoderm fail to develop in the second embryo.
Which of the following normally leads to the production of functional messenger RNA in the eukaryotic cells?
A decrease in the rate of ribosome synthesis
*The removal of portions of RNA known as introns
A decrease in RNA polymerase activity
The formation of peptide bonds between adjacent nucleotides
Membrane-bound organelles have been an important component in the evolution of complex, multicellular organisms. Which of the following best summarizes an advantage of eukaryotic cells having internal membranes?
Eukaryotic cells are able to reproduce faster because of the presence of organelles.
Some organelles, such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, are similar to prokaryotic cells in structure.
*Organelles isolate specific reactions, increasing metabolic efficiency.
Compartmentalization leads to a higher mutation rate in DNA, which leads to more new species.
By discharging sparks into a laboratory chamber atmosphere that consisted of water vapor, hydrogen gas, methane, and ammonia, Stanley Miller obtained data that showed a number of organic molecules, including many amino acids, could be synthesized. Miller was attempting to model early Earth conditions as understood in the 1950s. The results of Miller's experiments best support which of the following hypotheses?
The molecules essential to life today did not exist at the time earth was formed.
The molecules essential to life today could not have been carried to the primordial Earth by a comet or meteorite.
*The molecules essential to life today could have formed under early Earth conditions.
The molecules essential to life today were initially self-replicating proteins that were synthesized approximately four billion years ago.
Which of the following cells would be best at removing waste by diffusion?
*A cell of diameter 10 Micrometers
A cell of diameter 20 Micrometers
A cell of diameter 30 Micrometers
A cell of diameter 40 Micrometers
The area covered by tropical rain forest is reduced by millions of hectares per year due to agriculture and logging. Which of the following best describes a likely result of tropical rain forest deforestation?
*Populations of plants and animals will decrease as more rain forest disappears, leading to a decrease in biodiversity.
An increase in soil moisture will lead to a rapid increase in new vegetation coverage.
An increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide will lead to higher levels of ultraviolet radiation reaching the Earth.
More oxygen will be available to other organisms as plant numbers decrease.
Which of the following statements best supports the claim that organisms share fundamental processes as a result of evolution?
All organisms that are introduced into new environments have the capacity to fill vacant ecological roles.
All organisms have the ability to utilize oxygen to harness energy from the chemical breakdown of organic compounds.
*All organisms share a genetic code organized into triplet codons, making it possible for one organism to express a gene from another organism.
All organisms possess structures such as chloroplasts and mitochondria within their cells that reflect past symbiotic relationships between prokaryotic precursors
Experimental evidence shows that the process of glycolysis is present and virtually identical in organisms from all three domains, Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya. Which of the following hypotheses could be best supported by this evidence?
All organisms carry out glycolysis in mitochondria.
*Glycolysis is a universal energy-releasing process and therefore suggests a common ancestor for all forms of life.
Across the three domains, all organisms depend solely on the process of anaerobic respiration for ATP production.
The presence of glycolysis as an energy-releasing process in all organisms suggests that convergent evolution occurred
The last part of the metamorphosis of a tadpole to an adult frog results in the disappearance of the tail. This stage of development most likely occurs by
*cells of the tail dying and the nutrients being absorbed and reused by the body
shedding of the tail so energy is not spend on maintenance of an unneeded part
bilateral division of the tail and fusion with the developing hind limbs
individual cells of the tail migrating to the developing gonads