5
A psychotherapist who believes that deviant behavior can be traced either to genetic anomalies or to problems in the physical structure of the brain most likely subscribes to which of the following views of abnormality?
Cognitive
Behavioral
*Biomedical
Sociological
Psychoanalytic
A person with obsessive-compulsive disorder is best described as an individual who experiences
Memory loss
Intense mood swings
Extreme fear of open spaces
Physical symptoms with no known cause
*Persistent anxiety-provoking thoughts
A research design involves two randomly assigned groups of participants. One groups receives a one-time treatment, and the other does not. Later, the two groups are compared to see whether the treatment had an effect. Psychologists call this kind of research a(n)
correlational study
*experiment
case study
survey
cross-sectional study
The area of the brain stem that is important in controlling breathing is the 
suprachiasmatic nucleus
cerebellum 
limbic system
*medulla 
hippocampus 
Egocentrism, animism, and socialism are characteristic of which Jean Piaget's stages of cognitive development?
Sensorimotor
*Preoperational
Postformal
Concrete operations
Formal operations
Which of the following would an industrial-organizational psychologist be LEAST likely to study?
Managerial skills
Employee motivation
Job satisfaction
*Corporate profitability
Pay incentive programs
Vic has a unpredictable and repeated attacks of overwhelming anxiety that frequently leave him dizzy, nauseous, shot of breath, and in tears. A psychologist is likely to view Vic's behavior as indicative of a(n)
*panic disorder
psychotic breakdown
dissociative reaction
phobia 
obsession 
A stereotype is defined as which of the following?
An adjustment of one's behavior in response to peer pressure
An action performed in response to authority
A belief that one's own culture is superior to all others
*A generalization about a social group
A negative action taken against someone who is a member of a social group
Rafael has a sleep disorder for which he takes medically prescribed amphetamines. For which of the following sleep disorders is Rafael most likely being treated?
Sleep apnea
Narcolepsy
Insomnia
*Circadian rhythm sleep disorder
Somnambulism
The perceived pitch of a tone is largely determined by its
loudness 
timbre 
amplitude 
complexity 
*frequency 
Balance is influenced by the 
cochlea 
basilar membrane
eardrum 
auditory nerve
*semicircular canals
Humanistic psychologists believe that the drive toward self-actualization is
primarily associated with peak experiences
associated with extroversion
typical older individuals
*innate 
a developmental task of adolescence
A stubborn individual who accuses peers of being uncooperative is exhibiting which of the following defense mechanisms?
Identification
Denial
*Projection
Reaction formation
Sublimation
Harry Harlow's experiments with rhesus monkeys suggest which of the following as most important for infants when establishing an attachment to their mothers?
The amount of time spent with mother
The mother's ability to protect the infant from physical harm
The mother's ability to provide nourishment to the infant
*The tactile characteristics of the mother
The particular vocalizations of the mother
The biological clock that operates in human beings to adjusts their functioning to night-and-day periodicity is referred to as
spontaneous neural activity
the biofeedback monitor
a fixed-interval schedule
*a circadian rhythm
active consciousness
Visual activity is best in the 
lens 
iris 
pupil 
fovea 
cornea 
Individuals who believe that an unpleasant experience is unavoidable and therefore do nothing to change the course of events are exhibiting
self-actualization attributes
the fight-or-flight response
attributional deficits
*cognitive dissonance 
learned helplessness
Which of the following systems produces, circulates, and regulates levels of hormones in the body?
Circulatory system
*Endocrine system
Limbic system
Sympathetic nervous system
Parasympathetic nervous system
The brain scans of people with amnesia are most likely to chow damage to the 
*hippocampus 
hypothalamus 
medulla 
reticular formation
cerebellum 
In treating a patient for depression, Dr. Pratt focuses on changing the ways in which the patient interprets events. Which type of therapy is Dr. Pratt using?
*Cognitive
Self-efficacy
Biomedical
Learning
Psychodynamic 
Understanding that things continue to exist even when they are not within view is called
mental representation
deep structure
a schema
*object permanence
assimilation 
When is it permissible for a psychologist to share a client's test scores with another person?
*When an employer inquires about the mental health status of the client
When the client provides written permission to share results
When a school official requests the test scores to aid in a college admission decision
When the test scores are within the normal range
Never
Community psychologists intervene at the primary level when they
*design prevention programs for potential problems before the problems actually occur
deinstitutionalize individuals through the use of halfway houses
treat currently existing problems before they reach epidemic proportions
treat currently existing problems only after they have reached epidemic proportions
treat a disease in an attempt to slow the spread of it
On individual intelligence test such as the Stanford-Binet and the Wechsler scales, an IQ of 100 indicates that the test taker
correctly answered all of the items on the test
obtained the highest scores in the standardization sample
*scored at the average level for test takers of the same age
scored at the average level of the average American adult
took as lost as the average test take to answer the test items
Which of the following is LEAST likely to affect the immune system's ability to ward off illness?
Exposure to stress associated with final examination week
Having a serious argument with a close friend
Experiencing the death of a loved one
*Being around someone who has a serious case of the flu
Suffering sleep deprivation due to staying up for several nights writing a research paper
The rationale underlying the use of projective personality tests, such as the Rorschach Test and the Thematic Apperception test, in that they
can be efficiently administered in groups and scored by computer
can be given by almost anyone, since they are simple to administer and score
*reveal the subjects' personalities by eliciting responses to vague, ambiguous stimuli
provide clues to the subjects' personality based on behavioral theory
reveal patterns of the subjects' personality traits by requiring responses to a large number of objective question
The tendency to develop a positive attitude toward a product that has been advertised repeatedly in the media in reffered to as 
impression management
the Purkinje shift
*the mere-exposure effect
reaction formation
subliminal suggestion
As you watch a friend walk away from you, your retinal image of your friend gets smaller. Despite this, you do not perceive him to be shrinking. This is an example of 
motion parallax
retinal disparity
*size constancy
continuity 
common fate
Which of the following is the correct sequence of the neural chain of events set in motion by an environmental stimulus?
*Receptors, afferent neurons, interneurons, efferent neurons, effectors
Receptors, efferent neurons, interneurons, afferent neurons, effectors
Interneurons, effectors, receptors, afferent neurons, efferent neurons
Effectors, interneurons, receptors, afferent neurons, efferent neurons
Effectors, receptors, afferent neurons, efferent neurons, interneurons
An advantage of group therapy over individual therapy is that group therapy
requires less commitment from the client
achieves results more quickly
produces a significantly higher recovery rate 
produces a high rate of spontaneous remission
*enables clients to realize that their problems are not unique
A study can be regarded as scientific only if
it utilizes an effective placebo
its findings are accepted by experts in the field
its findings are consistent with established theories
its conclusions are based on strong correlational data
*its conclusions can be verified or refuted by subsequent studies
When a newborn infant is touched on the cheek, the infant will turn its head toward the source of stimulation. This behavior is known as
*rooting 
suckling 
the patellar reflex
the Moro reflex
the babinski reflex
Neurotransmitters are typically stored in which of the following parts of a neuron's?
The nodes of Ranvier
The myelin sheath
*The terminal buttons
The soma
The axon
In order to yield information that is generalizable to population from which it was drawn, a sample must be
made up of at least 30 members of the population
as large as possible
normally distributed
*representative of the population
made up of at least 50 percent of the members of the population
Individuals exhibiting a hostile type A personality pattern are at an increased risk for 
Alzheimer's disease
*cardiovascular disease 
schizophrenia 
substance abuse
anorexia nervosa
The factors chiefly responsible for interpersonal attraction include
*proximity and similarity
contrasting values
similar tendencies to dominate or submit
similar attitudes toward authority
shared attributional biases
In a memory study, the experimenter reads the same list of words to two groups. She asks group A to count the letters in each word, and asks group B to focus on the meaning of each word for a later memory quiz. During a recall test, participants in group B recall significantly more words that participants in group A. Memory researchers attribute this effect to differences in 
priming 
*levels of processing 
proactive interference
procedural memory
episodic memory
Rational-emotive behavior therapy assumes that abnormal functioning results from which of the following?
Repression of unpleasant emotions
Malfunctions of the body
Unconscious conflict
Inadequate reinforcement 
*Unreasonable beliefs or assumptions
According to Freudian theory, the component, of the personality that is "blind, impulsive, and irrational” is the
ego 
ego-ideal 
*id 
libido 
superego 
In a research study, informed consent is a concern of ethics
replicability
*ethics
statistical significance
practical applicability
cross-cultural representativeness
The correlation between two measure obtained on a group of individuals in graphically represented as a
bar graph
normal distribution
histogram 
*scatterplot 
frequency polygon
Staff members at a mental health hospital do not respond to patients who use threats, but praise patients who are courteous. Which of the following psychotherapeutic approaches is being used
Assertiveness training
Cognitive therapy
*Behavioral therapy
Humanistic therapy
Psychoanalytic therapy
Which of the following is the best example of shaping?
A child receives five dollars each time he cleans his room.
An employee receives a termination notice after coming to work late every day over a period of three months.
A child gets candy from a dispenser one time but gets nothing from the dispenser the next two times.
*A teacher rewards a student for sitting quietly for ten minutes on Monday, fifteen minutes on Tuesday, twenty minutes on Wednesday, and thirty minutes on Thursday.
A rat receives a mild shock each time it tries to open the door of its cage.
David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel's research on responses of the brain to visual stimuli showed that
patterns are recognized exclusively by template matching
*many cortical cells respond most strongly to specific visual information
pattern recognition occurs in the lateral geniculate nucleus
the retinal image must be upside down to be recognized
pattern recognition is better in normal-sighted individuals than in nearsighted or farsighted individuals
Judy believes that her fate is determined by her own actions. Judy's belief best illustrates
self-actualization
psychological reactance
a preoperational schema
the basis for psychological determinism
*an internal locus of control
An instructor conducted an experiment to determine the effects of two different methods of study on the amount students learned in introductory physics. The results showed that the average amount learned by the group using one method was greater than the average amount learned by the group using the other. However, the difference was not statistically significant. Which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion to be drawn?
The group of students attaining the higher mean score had studied more than the other group.
The better study method will have different effects for students of varying levels of ability.
Neither group learned a significant amount.
There is a positive correlation between the results of the two methods.
*There is a possibility that the difference between the two groups occurred by chance.
A student's test score of 86 is at the 42nd percentile. This means that this student has
received the 42nd highest score
answered 86 percent of the test items correctly
scored the same as 42 of her fellow students
scored the same as or higher than 42 percent of her fellow students
scored the same as or higher than 58 percent of her fellow students
Which of the following provides information regarding brain function by monitoring the brain at work through metabolism of glucose?
Computed tomography (CT)
Electrooculography (EOG)
Electroencephalography (EEG)
*Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Positron emission tomography (PET)
A person assembling a tool one week after reading the instructions can remember the first and last steps of the procedure but not the middle ones. This best illustrates which of the following?
Encoding failure
Social facilitation
Retrograde amnesia
Repression
*The serial position effect
Carol Gilligan's critique of Lawrence Kohlberg's stages of moral development focuses primarily on 
the order in which stages of moral development occur
the key events that mark the transitions between stages of moral development
the number of stages in moral development
how the course of moral development might be altered within certain cultures
*differences between males and females in the course of moral development
For extinction to occur, which of the following must be true of the conditioned response (CR), the conditioned stimulus (CS), and the unconditioned stimulus (UCS) ?
The CR occurs after the CS but does not occur after other stimuli.
The CR occurs after a stimulus that is similar to the CS.
The CS and the UCS are repeatedly paired, and the CR gains strength.
The CS is repeatedly presented in the absence of the UCS, and the CR loses strength.
*When the CR loses strength, a rest period is given, after which the CS again elicits the CR.
Which of the following behaviors is most closely associated with the foot-in-the-door phenomenon?
Beth continues to participate in class because she is positively reinforced.
Adam is sleeping while the rest of his classmates are working on their group project.
Sutan asks his father for $5, and when he agrees, Sutan asks him for $15 more.
*James feels pressure to go to the movies with his friends even though he prefers to go bowling.
Diana feels guilty because she did not help her family clear the table after dinner.
A child who learns that spoons are tableware and then correctly calls forks and knives tableware is demonstrating
rote learning
*imitation training
discrimination training
stimulus generalization
classical conditioning
Which of the following best describes the response of members of the American Psychological Association to ethical issues in research?
They have just begun to address such issues.
They disclaim ethical concerns regarding research.
They have developed codes of ethics for research with human participants only.
*They have developed codes of ethics for research with animal subjects only.
They have developed codes of ethics for research with both human participants and animal subjects. 
Lithium carbonate has been useful in some instances in the treatment of
bipolar disorder
dissociative identity disorder
autistic disorder
hypochondriasis
*anorexia nervosa
Which of the following is an example of a prelinguistic event?
*Telegraphic speech
Motherese
Babbling
Holophrasing
Paraphrasing
John B. Watson is best known as the founder of
behaviorism
functionalism
rationalism
*structuralism
Mechanism
Photoreceptors relay visual information to the brain through which of the following cells?
Trigeminal and vestibular
Ganglion and vestibular
Bipolar and vestibular
Bipolar and Schwann
*Bipolar and ganglion
Robert Rescorla's contingency model of classical conditioning states that
conditioning occurs only when one event reliably predicts another
contiguity of stimuli is sufficient for conditioning to occur
reinforcement contingencies predict extinction
any stimulus can become conditioned when paired with an unconditioned stimulus
the only difference between the conditioned response and the unconditioned response is the stimulus used to elicit them
Which of the following types of validity is estab- lished by demonstrating that there is a correlation between scores on a test and later academic performance?
*Content
Predictive
Face
Concurrent
Test-retest